What are quantum computers?<br><br>A conventional computer is able to do one thing at a time – that is, read a piece of information (a 'bit') and perform a few basic logic operations on it.<br><br>These very simple processes form the basis of everything that current computers can do. They do these simple operations sequentially on a piece of information amazingly fast, so it is possible to achieve quite complex outcomes (such as three-dimensional graphics and interactive computer games) in almost real time via an unbelievably large number of these simple steps.<br><br>While the rapid increases in computing power mean these simple steps can be carried out faster and faster, there are fundamental limits to how fast conventional electronic components can operate, and current technology is rapidly approaching these limits. Hence the need for quantum computers.<br><br>Quantum computers are different from conventional computers, in that they use electrons and atoms to store information ('qubit') rather than chips. As a result, they can handle billions of pieces of information simultaneously, and so avoid the inevitable bottleneck in conventional computers caused by their limitation to sequentially process one piece of information.<br><br>Despite the simplicity of the idea, it is actually extremely difficult to build a quantum computer. This is because electrons and atoms can be easily disturbed by their environment, causing the breakdown of information stored in the quantum computer and thus errors in computation.<br><br>So, it may be a while before you have a quantum computer on your desk. But physicists around the world are racing to get there, and have already built a 7-qubit-quantum computer, which demonstrates that the physics indeed works.
Why do mirrors reverse left and right? Is nature mirror symmetric?<br><br>The image you see in a mirror is not real – quite obviously so, since it will have a watch on its right arm if you have a watch on your left arm! It is what is called a virtual image. Your brain interprets the light reaching your eyes as having travelled in a straight line from its source, when in fact it has travelled along a 'crooked' line – it has been reflected from the surface of the mirror. So your brain 'sees' an image the same distance 'inside' (or behind) the mirror as you are standing from the mirror.<br><br>The fact that the reflected light is interpreted as having travelled in a straight line from 'inside' the mirror is what changes the handedness of the image your brain 'sees'.<br><br>Before the mid-1950s, scientists believed that nature was 'mirror symmetric' – that the laws of physics should not have an intrinsic handedness. In other words, they believed that if you were viewing an elementary particle interaction in a darkened room, you could not tell whether you were viewing the real process, or the image of the real process in a mirror. However, evidence emerged to suggest that one of the four fundamental interactions between elementary particles, namely the weak interaction, could in fact distinguish left from right.<br><br>An experiment confirming this suspicion was carried out in 1958 by a female physicist, Chien-Shiung Wu. Prior to the experiment, the Nobel Prize-winning Italian physicist Wolfgang Pauli had stated, "I do not believe that the Lord is a weak left-hander, and I am ready to bet a very high sum that the experiments will give symmetric results." He lost his money!
What is a black hole and have any been found?<br><br>The more dense a star or planet is, the harder it is to escape from its 'gravitational pull'. If an object is sufficiently dense, then nothing, not even light, can escape its gravitational field. In this case, the object is a black hole – black because no radiation can escape.<br><br>To get some idea of the incredible densities required, the whole mass of the Earth would have to be compressed into a sphere with a radius of less than one centimetre before it would be dense enough to form a black hole.<br><br>Nevertheless, it is believed that the required densities can occur at the end of the life cycles of certain stars, and recently, strong evidence has emerged suggesting that supermassive black holes lie at the centre of many galaxies.
Will the Universe keep expanding forever?<br><br>This question has mystified astronomers since they first realised over seventy years ago that the Universe is not static but expanding. Over the last few years and after decades of controversy, resolution of this puzzle is within sight.<br><br>The latest studies of supernova explosions vast distances from Earth, and of the pattern of irregularities in the cosmic microwave background, are telling us that not only is the Universe expanding, but that the rate of expansion is accelerating. Many astronomers are now convinced that the Universe will indeed expand forever.
Why is it impossible to travel faster than the speed of light?<br><br>Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity states that it is impossible for any object to travel faster than the speed of light, which is 300 million metres per second.<br><br>The reasoning goes like this. We are all probably comfortable with the fact that the heavier an object is, the more work we have to do to achieve a given change in speed – which is why truck engines are bigger than car engines! In fact, as Einstein recognised, it is not the just the mass of an object which determines its resistance to change in speed, but its energy.<br><br>This energy consists of the energy the object has when it is at rest (its 'rest energy', proportional to its mass via the famous formula E = mc2), plus the kinetic energy it possesses due to its motion. The faster an object moves, the greater its energy, and hence the greater its resistance to further increases in its speed – meaning we have to do more work to achieve a given additional increase in speed.<br><br>This cycle gets out of control as the speed of an object approaches the speed of light, in that it would take infinite amounts of energy to accelerate an object to a speed greater than that of light.
What is a superfluid?<br><br>One of the most puzzling phenomena observed in the first part of the 20th century was the behaviour of helium at very low temperatures – with 'very low' meaning just two degrees above ABSOLUTE zero (-271ºC). At these temperatures, the density of helium remains constant independent of temperature, but does not solidify. Normal liquids do not do this.<br><br>But the most significant and bizarre observation is that at these really cold temperatures, helium will conduct heat better than ANY metal, and shows NO viscosity. The complete absence of viscosity means that the helium can flow without friction – a hallmark of superfluidity.<br><br>For liquid helium this means that some truly odd things happen: when cooled in a hanging dish, a thin film will form and creep up and over the sides of the dish as if it were soup in a ladle determined to get back to the pot! These strange properties were later understood to be very natural examples of purely quantum phenomena.<br><br>Helium is just one example of matter that is able to exist in its lowest possible energy state as a collective whole, where all particles have exactly the same energy and even the same identities. Being indistinguishable while simultaneously occupying the same lowest possible energy state is a characteristic of what are called "bosons".<br><br>Sometimes bosons display this curious kind of condensation into a 'super' phase. Examples are superfluid helium, electrons in superconducting metals and high temperature superconducting ceramics, and most recently, Bose-Einstein condensates of heavy atoms caught in optical laser traps.
The Sun's gravitational force upon Earth is 180 times larger than the Moon’s gravitational force upon Earth (p. 45), but lunar tides are larger than solar tides because the Sun is so much further away than the Moon (p. 48).
Saturn’s rings are believed to have been caused by tidal forces due to gravitational variation. Long ago, a moon of Saturn got too close to the planet and was pulled apart—the fragments make up the rings (p. 49).
Gravity and centripetal acceleration caused by the Moon create two tidal bulges on Earth—one directly below the Moon and the other on the far side of the Earth opposite the first bulge. The Moon’s gravitational pull on the two tidal bulges produces a net counter-rotational torque that tends to reduce the Earth’s rotational speed. The result is that the length of a day on Earth is continually increasing by about 2 milliseconds per century. Assuming that this rate of increase has been in effect for the last 2,000 years, then the day Julius Caesar was assassinated in 44BC was shorter in duration, compared to yesterday, by about 40 milliseconds (p. 53).
The center of mass is the point at which we can imagine the entire mass of the object is concentrated as a point mass. If you stack books on top of each other with each staggered exactly halfway across the one beneath it (at the center of mass) and off the edge of the table, the stack will not fall (p. 97).
The Sun is hot, as the more astute of you will have noticed. It is hot because its enormous weight – about a billion billion billion tons – creates vast gravity, putting its core under colossal pressure. Just as a bicycle pump gets warm when you pump it, the pressure increases the temperature. Enormous pressure leads to enormous temperature. If, instead of hydrogen, you got a billion billion billion tons of bananas and hung it in space, it would create just as much pressure, and therefore just as high a temperature. So it would make very little difference to the heat whether you made the Sun out of hydrogen, or bananas, or patio furniture
Atoms are 99.9999999999999 per cent empty space. As Tom Stoppard put it: "Make a fist, and if your fist is as big as the nucleus of an atom, then the atom is as big as St Paul's, and if it happens to be a hydrogen atom, then it has a single electron flitting about like a moth in an empty cathedral, now by the dome, now by the altar." If you forced all the atoms together, removing the space between them, crushing them down so the all those vast empty cathedrals were compressed into the first-sized nuclei, a single teaspoon or sugar cube of the resulting mass would weigh five billion tons; about ten times the weight of all the humans who are currently alive. Incidentally, that is exactly what has happened in a neutron star, the super-dense mass left over after a certain kind of supernova.
There are probably more than 100 billion galaxies in the cosmos. Each of those galaxies has between 10 million and a trillion stars in it. Our sun, a rather small and feeble star (a “yellow dwarf”, indeed), weighs around a billion billion billion tons, and most are much bigger. There is an awful lot of visible matter in the Universe. But it only accounts for about two per cent of its mass. We know there is more, because it has gravity. Despite the huge amount of visible matter, it is nowhere near enough to account for the gravitational pull we can see exerted on other galaxies. The other stuff is called “dark matter”, and there seems to be around six times as much as ordinary matter. To make matters even more confusing, the rest is something else called “dark energy”, which is needed to explain the apparent expansion of the Universe. Nobody knows what dark matter or dark energy is.
