Continents shift at about the same rate as your fingernails grow.
Mt. Thor on Baffin Island, Canada, has Earth’s greatest sheer vertical drop (4,101 feet).
Ninety percent of Earth's population lives in the Northern Hemisphere.
California has more people than all of Canada.
Australia is wider than the moon.
In the Philippines, there’s an island that’s within a lake, on an island that’s within a lake, on an island.
The Dead Sea is currently 429 meters below sea level and sinking about 1 meter a year.
At certain times of the year you could walk from the United States to Russia because of two islands known as Big (Russian) and Little (U.S.) Diomede.
 Mount Everest, the world’s tallest mountain, can fit inside the Marianas Trench, the deepest part of the ocean.
Russia spans 11 time zones.
Vatican City is the smallest country in the world.
The Constitution of the Confederate States of America banned the slave trade.
Africa is the only continent that covers four hemispheres
England’s King George I was actually German.
While other continents cover a maximum of one and a half hemispheres, Africa covers the northern, southern, eastern and western hemispheres. 
With a total of 561 lakes, a good 9% of Canada is covered with freshwater lakes.
When it comes to being the highest (in terms of sea level), Everest is the reigning champion. But, thanks to a weird bulge near the equator, Chimborazo in Ecuador is the closest to the moon.
The third-largest country in terms of area, China generously shares its border with Russia, India, Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Pakistan, Myanmar, Afghanistan, Vietnam, Laos, Kyrgyzstan, Nepal, Tajikistan, North Korea and Bhutan. 
The one-letter place named Å, means river in the Scandinavian language and is situated both in Sweden and Norway.
With Kangchenjunga and Mount Everest to boast about, the Himalayas have the most number of highest peaks in the world.
An island country located in the Pacific Ocean, Nauru although bigger than Vatican City has no official capital. It does however have its government offices in Yaren.
The buildings in Manhattan are so monumental that they warranted their own zip codes. Now there are about 43 buildings with their very own zip codes.
The Bering Strait joins part of Russia and Alaska with two islands - Big Diomede and Little Diomede. Big Diomede belongs to Russia, while the little one belongs to the USA. The distance between them can be crossed in a span of a few hours. 
