"Someone is sitting in the shade today because someone planted a tree a long time ago." - Warren Buffett
"What lies behind you and what lies in front of you, pales in comparison to what lies inside of you." - Ralph Waldo Emerson
"We know what we are, but know not what we may be." - William Shakespeare
"All you need is the plan, the road map, and the courage to press on to your destination" - Earl Nightingale
"A hero is someone who has given his or her life to something bigger than oneself." - Joseph Campbell
"I hated every minute of training, but I said, 'Don't quit. Suffer now and live the rest of your life as a champion." - Muhammad Ali
"No matter what people tell you, words and ideas can change the world." - Robin Williams
"The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched - they must be felt with the heart." - Helen Keller
"Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven't found it yet, keep looking. Don't settle. As with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it." - Steve Jobs
"My mission in life is not merely to survive, but to thrive; and to do so with some passion, some compassion, some humor, and some style." - Maya Angelou
"If you don't like something, change it. If you can't change it, change your attitude." - Maya Angelou
"What we think, we become." - Budda
"If you always put limit on everything you do, physical or anything else. It will spread into your work and into your life. There are no limits. There are only plateaus, and you must not stay there, you must go beyond them." - Bruce Lee
"When we seek to discover the best in others, we somehow bring out the best in ourselves." - William Arthur Ward
"Your personal life, your professional life, and your creative life are all intertwined. I went through a few very difficult years where I felt like a failure. But it was actually really important for me to go through that. Struggle, for me, is the most inspirational thing in the world at the end of the day - as long as you treat it that way." - Skylar Grey
"Two roads diverged in a wood and I - I took the one less traveled by, and that has made all the difference" - Robert Frost
"Throw your dreams into space like a kite, and you do not know what it will bring back, a new life, a new friend, a new love, a new country." - Anais Nin
"When you get into a tight place and everything goes against you, till it seems as though you could not hang on a minute longer, never give up then, for that is just the place and time that the tide will turn." - Harriet Beecher Stowe
"Be who you are and say what you feel, because those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't mind." —Dr. Seuss
"Keep your eyes on the stars and your feet on the ground." —Theodore Roosevelt
"The only person you should try to be better than is the person you were yesterday." —Anonymous
"Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one's definition of your life; define yourself." —Harvey Fierstein
“Faith is the art of holding on to things your reason has once accepted, in spite of your changing moods." –C.S. Lewis
"A man who flies from his fear may find that he has only taken a shortcut to meet it." —Sador, Children of Húrin
"Life's too mysterious to take too serious." —Mary Engelbreit
"No one can make you feel inferior without your consent." —Eleanor Roosevelt
"The woman who follows the crowd will usually go no further than the crowd. The woman who walks alone is likely to find herself in places no one has been before." —Albert Einstein
"You can't go around building a better world for people. Only people can build a better world for people. Otherwise it's just a cage." —Terry Pratchett, Witches Abroad
"There isn't a way things should be. There's just what happens, and what we do." —Terry Pratchett, A Hat Full of Sky
"It's not about how hard you can hit; it's about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward." —Rocky Balboa, Rocky
"If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together." —African proverb
"I can be changed by what happens to me but I refuse to be reduced by it." —Maya Angelou
"Believe you can and you're halfway there." —T. Roosevelt
"May I never be complete. May I never be content. May I never be perfect." —Chuck Palahniuk
"Nothing in life is to be feared; it is only to be understood. Now is the time to understand more so that we may fear less." —Marie Curie
"Those who don't believe in magic will never find it." —Roald Dahl
"Plant your garden and decorate your own soul, instead of waiting for someone to bring you flowers." —Jose Luis Borges
"Don't sweat the petty things and don't pet the sweaty things." —George Carlin
"Do what you feel in your heart to be right, for you'll be criticized anyway." —Eleanor Roosevelt.
"Do not go where the path may lead, go instead where there is no path and leave a trail." —Ralph Waldo Emerson